Good Morning and thanks for being here


The expectation from Immigration in the context of Population Aging
Public opinion and results from previous recherche
Problem in previous recherche that this recherche fixe

Objetive: Measure and Compare Public transfer for Immigrants to Natives in Cananda between

Method and data source

Starting with the fundamental NTA equation,

At each age consumption is funded by labour income, asset income minus saving, net private transfers, and net public transfers . For our purpose, we will be focusing on the accounts and sub accounts used for net public transfer: TGI and TGO, standing public inflows and public outflow transfers respectively

TGO includes

Public transfer inflows \(T^{GI}_a\) includes public consumption (health, education, other consumption ) and public cash transfers (mainly public pensions - Canada Pension Plan, Quebec Pension Plan, Old Age Security pension, and Guaranteed Income Supplement -, family allowances, and unemployment benefits).

Public transfer outflows \(T^{GO}_a\) include all taxes from individuals (mainly employee contributions, direct taxes from persons, and consumption taxes) and corporations (mainly employer contributions and direct taxes from corporations and government business enterprises).






Julien and Marcel have estimated the components of TGO and TGI for Canada as a whole.

Get TGO and TGI from Marcel and Julien estimates of NTA in Canada
Split each sub accounts between Immigrants and Native.


We start by defining the per capita value of a given accounts and residency status.


Then we derives the following measure of analysis.














Immigrants Suplus and Net Suplus are used as a measure of comparison.

Immigrant Surplus is the difference in transfer between Immigrants and Natives for a given accounts or sub accounts \(c \) of inflows and outflows.

formula--

Net surplus is the sum of all immigrant surplus accross all accounts or sub accounts.

formula--




The results
Graphic--
----Net surplus ----

Excluding the sudden increase from 2011 which increase it to x, the average net surplus of transfer has fluctuated only slighly arround \$1400 since 1997. A positive net surplus of transfer implies that the average immigrant has costed to the state more than the average native. However this overall positive cost say little about the origines of these costs, as it hide important differences in trends within each group and transfer components.


----Immigrants surplus ----
Over the studied period, Immigrant surplus for inflow has been postive, with immigrants receiving about \$1400 more than natives in average. It can also be observed that transfers to immigrants have been slowing down compare to native. For instance, Immigrant suplus for inflow has drop by about \$700 between 1997 and 2015 and if the surplus for outflows were maintained at its early 2000s level, the net surplus of transfer between immigrants and natives would be close to null by 2015. Instead, while suplus for inflow decreased slowly and steadly, the surplus for outflow  has increased greatly between 1997 and 2015, and espeically from 2011 result in the spike we saw in net surplus.

Till now we know the difference between Immigrants and native in net transfer is largely du to the difference in outflows. But which sub components of outflow is actually the  source. Or how this difference is shared among various sub components of outflow.


When we look directly at the immigrants suplus for each sub components of inflows and outflow, we see a rather different picture.

Graphic--

Looking of the graphic, we see elements of inflow actually show larger surplus than those of outflows. Which is not even consistent with the litterature. For instance the labor market has been reportedly shown as a source of inequality between immigrants and native. So we were expecting that sub components that are related to labor market outcome such taxe on income and sales show some level of difference. And that where the demographic decomposition come in.

Looking at the graphic,
We now a much reasonable picture, as much of what appeared as difference in public transfer are actually diffences in age structure of the two population.


As a side note
Making the analogy with concepts used in epidemiology, age-specific and age-adjusted transfers are to the per Capita surplus, what age-specific and age-adjusted  mortality rates are to crude mortality rate.


----Source of surplus ----



----Conclusion ----

Immigrants received a lot more than they contribute to public finanaces in Canada, even more than crude per capita value suggest.

Labor Market Imbalances are indeded the main source the cost of immigration. But are not revealed until the effect of age structure is taken out

Per capita comparision of NTA accounts is heavily bisased if when demographic structure is not the same for the compaire groups.

----Thank You ----


Comments
--------

what do we do about it, you present the fact but no policy recommendation.
Facts, is it a problem, or fix it.

Why Canada is welcome immigrants, maybe because of next generation. No dicussion on the methods.

The paper that immigrants is a big cost in Canada.




